Jaguar CD Emulator, v2.10
-------------------------
Hi folks, this is the latest version (v2.10) of the CD Emulator.  See the
"CHANGES HISTORY" Section below for information on what's new in this
version.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
!!! Please keep a copy of the old CD ROM Emulator on a disk for security !!!
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The entire contents of the JAGUAR\CDROMEMU directory should be copied to
the root directory of DRIVE C of the hard drive in your Falcon030 Jaguar
CDROM Emulator.  The directory structure should remain intact.  Below is the
complete pathname of each file as it should be found on the Falcon030 after
you have copied the files over.

C:\CDEMU.TXT
C:\CDROM.PRG
C:\AUTO\GPIOINIT.PRG
C:\CDROMSYS\CDCOLUSA.RSC
C:\CDROMSYS\CDMONUSA.RSC
C:\CDROMSYS\CDSTRUSA.RSC
C:\CDROMSYS\I2S.LOD
C:\SHDRIVER.SYS



Emulator problems reported and unchanged:
-----------------------------------------
* 'CD_mode' does not switch to single speed

* 'err_flag' is always unusable


The following CD BIOS calls dealing with the AUDIO funtionality are untested
for the Emulator:

* CD_jeri
* CD_mute
* CD_umute
* CD_osamp

As you can make most of your AUDIO tests with real AUDIO CDs, this should be not a
big problem.

All other functions work in the environments we have used for testing (real
world game projects from our inhouse development teams).

If you see $DEAD sent from the Emulator DURING access of a track, the reason
is timing: The date cannot be accessed fast enough on the external data drive
to fulfill the speed requirements of the interrupt handler.

You should be able to fix this in either of the following ways:

a) Defragment your CD-DATA drive (under MSDOS).

b) Glue any tiny little files you may have together into one big track file.
(Still apply item A!)

c) Use a drive that fulfills our speed requirements and that does not perform
thermal recalibration.


General remarks:
----------------
* The first rule of the CD Emulator is NEVER write ANYTHING to the 1GB
  CD-DATA Drive from the Falcon030, even from the emulator program.  This
  explicitly includes saving a TOC file from the emulator.  In fact, it's
  best if you do NOT EVEN ACCESS the CD-DATA drive in the File Selector
  dialog box that prompts you for the TOC filename.

  Because of the differences in hard disk partition formats between GEMDOS
  and MSDOS, the Falcon030 operating system can have problems if you access
  the CD-DATA drive outside of those portions of the Emulator that know how
  to deal with the differences.  Please note that the emulator uses two
  different File Selector dialogs, one for loading or saving TOC files on the
  Falcon030 internal hard drive and another for selecting track files on the
  CD-DATA drive.  In the latter, it is perfectly acceptible to access the
  data drive.  However, should you access the CD-DATA drive from anywhere
  else, a reboot is required or else you will see memory errors of various
  types.

* Some People had problems with Cinepak - it would run with the Emulator
  but NOT with the real Jaguar CD.  One of the reasons was timing, and there
  are two things in the Cinepak player source to change:

  a) The Variable BLKRATE is 72 for the Emulator and 75 for the real CD.

  b) The Audio BLOCKSIZE goes into calculation for the timing of the
  buffer-reload.

  If the result is too small (for example because your Audio Blocksize is
  bigger than you define in CINEPAK.INC), the transfer into the circular
  buffer starts too early and you kill data by overwriting it while you still
  are displaying it.

  You can look at the audio block size with FLMINFO on the PC or with the
  "Show Cinepak Film Info" menu item in the "Jaguar Cinepak Utilities"
  program on the Macintosh.  (If you don't have a version with this menu
  option please remember to update your tools more regularly.)

  c) 1 chunk size movies cannot be properly played with the current PLAYER.S
  in distribution.  The reason is that one chunk movies do not make the
  player enter the playphase 2 and 3 correctly.  We will post a tested fix
  for that ASAP.

  We are continually in the process of further improving the "Jaguar Cinepak
  Utilities" tool.  Please keep an eye out for updates.

* The current drive/butch reads up to 64 bytes over the rim of the buffer.
  This cannot be avoided without slowing down the 'CD_read' immensely.  Just
  append a small scratch buffer at the end of the buffer you use.

* Please note that 'CD_initm' is much less efficient than 'CD_init'.  If
  you have reliability problems with the emulator and 'CD_initm', please
  check if the same problem apperas with 'CD_init'.  If not, there is a good
  likelyhood that some other code prevents the GPU to see the bus enough and
  therefore you lose some data from time to time.  Solution: load fast, then
  search for and relocate the code yourself (instead of having the GPU to
  compare every longword by itself for ALL read longwords instead of only in
  a range where it makes sense to search)

* The CDBIOS will die if you stay too long in any high bus priority of the
  68k, for example in a VBL.  You must absolutely be sure to run under 55
  microseconds in your VBL if you are doing it in the 68k.  This is true for
  all the 'CD_init' variations.

* Avoid doing VBL in 68k at all if possible, for example using an object
  list update with a GPU object in the object list (as demonstrated in the
  demo code of CPKDEMO that we distribute).  If you have a problem with GPU
  space, use overlays for the object list update.

* A typical behaviour to watch for to see if you have killed the CDBIOS is
  that the 'CD_ptr' remains at the same location.





Changes History
---------------


v2.10
-----
* Fixed problem that generated a block of 0 (zeros) at the transition point
  between two files that are virtually merged in one track on the emulator.

* Falcon030 dies if Emulator is unintentionally left reading for a while
  (This could be overcome with the old version by sending 'CD_stop' if you
  don't need to read any more data.)

* Falcon030 dies if Emulator is asked to deliver data before or after valid
  track area.  (This could be overcome by padding the data you WANT to access
  with dummy data.)


v 2.05
------
* Found and fixed a problem that would make the emulation crash if you
  access data out of the existing and defined file area.  This also should
  fix the problem that the emulation dies after you forget to CD_stop if you
  don't need to CD_read any more.


v2.00
-----
* This version of the emulator features improved speed, which should make
  it more reliable with playing Cinepak movies from the Emulator.

* Another feature is that you now can define padding for files that are
  merged into a track.  This is basically a function within the saving of the
  file position include file FILELIST.INC.



