HASBRO INTERACTIVE RELEASES RIGHTS TO
     THE ATARI JAGUAR HARDWARE PLATFORM

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:

CONTACTS:
Dana Henry
Hasbro Interactive
978-921-3759
dhenry@hasbro.com

Beverly, MA (May 14, 1999) - Leading entertainment software publisher, Hasbro Interactive announced today it has released all
rights that it may have to the vintage Atari hardware platform, the Jaguar. 

Hasbro Interactive acquired rights to many Atari properties, including the legendary Centipede, Missile Command, and Pong
games, in a March 1998 acquisition from JTS Corporation. 

This announcement will allow software developers to create and publish software for the Jaguar system without having to obtain a
licensing agreement with Hasbro Interactive for such platform development. Hasbro Interactive cautioned, however, that the
developers should not use the Atari trademark or logo in connection with their games or present the games as authorized or
approved by Hasbro Interactive. 

"Hasbro Interactive is strictly focused on developing and publishing entertainment software for the PC and the next generation
game consoles," said Richard Cleveland, Head of Marketing for Hasbro Interactive's Atari Business Unit. "We realize there is a
passionate audience of diehard Atari fans who want to keep the Jaguar system alive, and we don't want to prevent them from
doing that. We will not interfere with the efforts of software developers to create software for the Jaguar system." 

Hasbro Interactive, Inc. is a leading all-family interactive games publisher, formed in 1995 to bring to life on the computer the
deep library of toy and board games of parent company, Hasbro, Inc. (ASE:HAS). Hasbro Interactive has expanded its charter
to include original and licensed games for the PC, the Playstation(R) and Nintendo(R) 64 game consoles and for multi-player
gaming over the internet. Headquartered in Beverly, Massachusetts, Hasbro Interactive has offices in the U.K., France,
Germany, Japan and Canada. For more information, visit the Hasbro Interactive Web site at http://www.hasbro-interactive.com. 